# SDN x Cloud Native Meetup #17
- 時間: Friday, June 28, 2019 at 7:30 PM to Friday, June 28, 2019 at 9:30 PM GMT+8
- 地點: 線上

# 流程 / Agenda

19:00 - 19:30 入場，晚餐，FaDaTsai

19:30 - 20:30 Microsoft - Virtual Kubelet

20:30 - 21:00 openSUSE Kubic 簡單分享

21:00 - 21:30 交流

# 議程 / Sessions

Talk 1: Virtual Kubelet

Virtual Kubelet is a newly inducted project in CNCF that allows Kubernetes clusters to scale efficiently to any cloud provider of their choice. This session will go through the architecture of the project, applicable scenarios with public cloud providers, and demos to burst out existing kubernetes clusters without adding additional infrastructure. The session will also go through existing Virtual Kubelet implementations, and how users of Kubernetes can utilize the providers. This includes implementations from AWS, VMWare, Azure, HashiCorp and more. If you want to adopt Kubernetes and containerization, but not deal with managing more infrastructure then this is for you.

Speaker: Sravan Rengarajan

Microsoft Program Manager

Greater Seattle Area

Speaker: Ria Bhatia

Microsoft Program Manager

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Talk 2: openSUSE Kubic 簡單分享

openSUSE Kubic is a Project maintaining multiple container-related technologies as part of the openSUSE Project. Kubic distribution has become a Certified Kubernetes Distribution.

預計談談以下項目:

Why openSUSE Kubic?

openSUSE Kubic 專案介紹

openSUSE MicroOS

Transactional updates

Kubernetes 節點

使用 openSUSE Kubic 快速架設 Kubernetes Cluster

Speaker: Max Huang

Bio: https://sakanamax.github.io/
