---
sidebar_position: 6
description: '2023.07.30 (六) 19:00 ~ 20:00 | 國立臺灣科技大學 TR 211'
---

# Kubernetes Community Day Taiwan (Day2)
- 時間: Sunday, July 30, 2023, 10:00 AM – 05:00 PM CST
- 地點：國立臺灣科技大學
- 共同籌辦: COSCUP 2023


## 議程 / Sessions

### Grafana 全家桶，如何打造高可用且具可擴充性的 o11y 平台

本次分享機會探討如何以 Grafana 以及其生態系下的各開源專案如 mimir, loki, tempo, promtail, agent 等打造一個兼容 metrics/logging/tracing 三面向的監控平台。
此外也會分享其架構並且與常見的解決方案，如 Prometheus, Jaeger, Opentelemetry, ELK 等進行比較來理解使用 Grafana 全家餐的好處

Collaborative note: https://hackmd.io/@coscup/r1fnlJJsh

講師名: HungWei Chiu(邱宏瑋)

HungWei is a co-founder of SDNDS-TW and CNTUG, two local communities in Taiwan. SDNDS-TW specializes in SDN and networking topics, while CNTUG focuses on Cloud Native approaches. Additionally, HungWei is dedicated to sharing his knowledge and experience through blog posts and speaking engagements at various conferences and meetups. Some of the events he has participated in include COSCUP 2022, COSCUP 2018 x openSUSE, Asia GNOME.Asia, Open Source Networking Days Taiwan, and GDG DevFest Taipei 2018.

---

### Tekton and ArgoCD: The Dynamic Duo for Kube Native CI/CD

As the use of containers and Kubernetes for application deployment becomes more widespread, managing the continuous integration/delivery/deployment process can still be a challenge. Tekton and ArgoCD are two CNCF projects that aim to simplify and automate the CI/CD process for containerized applications. In this talk, I will provide an overview of Tekton and ArgoCD and show how they can be used together to streamline the CI/CD process. I will demo how to deploy new features to a Quarkus (game) application in a streamlined and controlled way (and perhaps the audience will get to even play along? ).

This talk is aimed at developers, DevOps engineers, and other Cloud Native / Kubernetes practitioners who are interested in learning more about truly Cloud Native, Serverless CI/CD and how it can be used to improve the automation of building and deploying applications to Kubernetes.

Takeaways:

Introduction to Tekton and ArgoCD
How to leverage pipelines and GitOps to deploy applications
How to release new features continuously using feature flags
Collaborative note: https://hackmd.io/@coscup/rJrhxyJj2

講師名: Kevin Dubois

Kevin is a software engineer and developer advocate at Red Hat who is on a mission to supercharge developer joy and productivity using Open Source as the guiding light. He is a frequent conference speaker, talking mostly about Java, Quarkus and Cloud Native Development & Deployment practices.
Kevin previously worked as a (Lead) Software Engineer at a variety of organizations ranging from small startups to large US enterprises and even the Belgian public sector.
In his free time you can find Kevin somewhere in the wild hiking, gravel biking, snowboarding down mountains or packrafting (up and) down WW rivers.

---

### Exploring the Longhorn Data Plane: An Overview and Enhancements

Longhorn is a distributed block storage system that has been purpose-built for Kubernetes, making it an ideal cloud-native solution. As an incubating project of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), its main goal is to provide persistent and highly available storage for stateful workloads. In this presentation, we will be exploring Longhorn’s architecture and specifically, the data path. Despite offering a wealth of features, such as snapshots, backups, and recurring jobs, there is still room for improvement in the data plane’s performance. To address this, a data engine is integrated with Storage Performance Development Kit (SPDK) in the upcoming release, which improves the I/O data path, resulting in better latency and throughput. Additionally, we will introduce the Userspace Block Device Driver (ublk) as a frontend to enhance performance and reduce latency. This feature is particularly useful for edge devices that use legacy data engines.

Collaborative note: https://hackmd.io/@coscup/H1_neyJs3

講師名: Jing-Wei Su

Jing-Wei Su is a Staff Software Engineer at SUSE from the end of 2021. He is interested in storage technology. He is currently working on the CNCF Longhorn project.

---

### Demystifying Cloud Native Terminology: Explore the Cloud Native Glossary and Contribute to the Community

As the cloud native movement gains momentum, it becomes increasingly important to understand complex technical terms, concepts, and technologies. The CNCF Cloud Native Glossary (glossary.cncf.io) aims to define cloud native concepts in clear and simple language, making them accessible to everyone. In this session, Seokho Son, one of the maintainers of the Cloud Native Glossary and a CNCF Ambassador, will introduce the project and demonstrate how it can be a valuable resource for understanding cloud native terminology. You can use the Glossary to grasp complex terms and make your first contribution to the CNCF and the Cloud Native community. The community eagerly awaits your contributions! Join this session to learn how to utilize and contribute to the Cloud Native Glossary.

Collaborative note: https://hackmd.io/@coscup/Skn2g11i3

講師名: Seokho Son

Seokho Son is a CNCF Ambassador and senior researcher & open source special fellow at the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI), a national research institute in South Korea. His primary responsibilities include designing systems and devising algorithms for cloud and cloud-native computing to accomplish national research projects. He is one of the maintainers of the CNCF Cloud Native Glossary which aims to define cloud native concepts in clear and simple language, and he is contributing to Kubernetes by leading the Korean localization team in Kubernetes SIG-Docs and maintaining localization in Kubernetes/website. Furthermore, he is one of the maintainers of Cloud-Barista, a multi-cloud management platform. As an open source advocate, Seokho has served as a speaker at various cloud native events, including Cloud Native Community Groups and Kubernetes Forum in South Korea, and he is actively involved in mentoring open source contribution programs in South Korea.

--- 

### Faster Image Pulling with IPFS Cache and eStargz Lazy Pulling

Container image pulling is a critical component of modern application development and deployment workflows, but it can be slow and resource-intensive, particularly when pulling large images. Research shows the time to pull container image take 76% of the container startup time. This proposal explores the use of InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) cache and eStargz lazy pulling to improve the speed and efficiency of container image pulling.

Collaborative note: https://hackmd.io/@coscup/B1J6gJyon

講師名: JenTing

A passionate and exquisite software developer in the backend, Kubernetes, and cloud-native projects.

---

### Who broke the build? — Using Kuttl to improve E2E testing and release faster

No one wants to be responsible for breaking the build. But what can you do as a developer to avoid being the bad guy? How can project leads enable their teams to reduce the occurrence of broken builds?
In talking within our own teams, we discovered that many developers weren’t running sufficient integration and End to End tests in their local environments because it’s too difficult to set up and administer test environments in an efficient way.
That’s why we decided to rethink our entire local testing process in hopes of cutting down on the headaches and valuable time wasted. Enter Kuttl. Connecting Kuttl to CI builds has empowered our developers to easily configure a development environment locally that accurately matches the final test environment — without needing to become an expert CI admin themselves.
These days, we hear, “Who broke the build?” far less often — and you can too!

Collaborative note: https://hackmd.io/@coscup/BJf6xkksh

講師名: Ram Mohan Rao Chukka

Ram is a Senior Software Engineer at JFrog. Around 14 years of work experience and Previously worked for startup companies like CallidusCloud (SAP Company), Konylabs. Strong believer of open source software can change world and which helps to solve real world problems

At JFrog, I maintain open source helm charts and Ansible collections at Github .

Loves Automation, Linux, openSource

---

### 從 0 開始打造私有雲的 Kubernetes 監控吧！

建置私有雲的 Kubernetes，需要解決的就是監控問題，本議程將會講解怎麼組合 Prometheus + Grafana，除此之外，還有帶你理解常用的 CRDs，打造出屬於你的監控報表。

Collaborative note: https://hackmd.io/@coscup/rkUaeyys3

講師名: 梯口 tico88612

哈囉，我叫做梯口，目前在花蓮讀碩士寫論文，但同時也在工作，自從大四實習踏入 IT/SRE 領域後，持續研究任何 Cloud Native 的新技術、DevOps 的思維，喜歡分享自己所看到的人事物
